# Reflections: 2018-08

## Script Execution Overview

| Date | PSP Ver. | Context | Roadmap | Estimation | Time Log | Scope | Reflection |
|:----:|:--------:|:-------:|:-------:|:----------:|:--------:|:-----:|:------:|
| 2018/08/01 | 2018-07-15 | N/A | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/02 | 2018-07-15 | N/A | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/03 | 2018-07-15 | N/A | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/06 | 2018-08-04 | **Not done** | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/07 | 2018-08-04 | **Not done** | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |
| 2018/08/08 | 2018-08-04 | **Not done** | Done | Done | Done | Done | **Not done** |
| 2018/08/09 | 2018-08-04 | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done | Done |

## 2018/08/01 (Wednesday)

In the past several weeks, Bill has been working on the new build system. Last week, he asked me to work on creating a VirtualBox image that can be used as a Jenkins worker to build code.

Today, he asked me whether I could finish the VM image so when he merged the code back to `master` branch, we could start to use the VM image to build code. It wasn't this moment that I realized I failed to do some things I should have done much earlier:

- Firstly, I didn't realize that my work was in fact closely related with his work. Once you realized this, it looked very obvious: he was working on the build system; I was working on the VM image that would be used to build code. Sure, when he merged the code back to `master`, we wanted the Jenkins build system to use the new VM image to provision worker machines to build code.
- Secondly, I didn't know his progress and how far he thought he may finish the work on his side, which was also the time I should finish my work.
- Even if I could have solved the two questions above, I still didn't do one thing well enough: keep communicating with him to understand how much I should do. Our code building infrastructure was not fully automated yet, so there would be a lot of work to do. I couldn't finish all the work, of course. Then I should have talked more with him about how much I need to finish. Meanwhile, the communication could also let me know how far he was away from completion so I could adjust my work accordingly.

This was a real good lesson.

The first two issues were about **understanding the context of the task**. Whenever I start to work on a task, I need to understand:

- Whose work is this task related with?
- When should this task be finished? Even if there is no specific completion date, some people may expect this task to be finished so they can use it. I need to figure out **who** has this expectation.

The third issue was about **managing task scope**. I need to communicate with the people who are related with my task to know whether I should make more effort on it or cut off some features of lower priority to make it complete earlier.

## 2018/08/07 (Tuesday)

Today my planned tasks were kind of interrupted because of the change of project focus. Since the new build system is done, we will no longer use Jenkins as the nightyly build system since now everyone can build the whole system on their own computer. But this reflected the necessity of communicating the task context: because I didn't communicate about the task context, I didn't realize we don't need Jenkins anymore until I was told so. In other words, my work today and yesterday was kind of wasted.

This is sad, but again this is good, because it once again makes me realize how important the task context can be.

## 2018/08/09 (Thursday)

I forgot to add my reflection yesterday which may be because of two reasons:

- I accidentally closed my Google Calender browser tab so the reminder didn't pop up.
- Although the reminder didn't pop up, I still remembered that I should reflect my work, but I didn't do that immediately when I recalled this.

As a result, I finally forgot to do that. This is not the end of the world, but I need to make sure I won't forget it over and over again.

Today I was asked what task I was working on since my previous task had been wrapped up already. I should have asked the question earlier before I was asked.
